--- 

    { "tags" : [
        "english"
      , "linux"
      , "opensource"
      , "technology"
      , "tmux"
      , "vim"
      , "xmacro"
      ]
    , "title" : "Tasks Automation with XMacro"
    }

--- 

So it's time to make a more technical post.

If you're looking for `tmux` macros and you use `Xorg`, you will need this tip.

## TL;DR

Install `xmacro`, record some commonly made actions, edit the recorded file to
polish times and actions, make a script to reproduce them again and voil√†,
macros for any window manager using `Xorg`, easy to use from vim or tmux.

## The story

I've been playing with linux for many years now. Like any typical user, I
started with user friendly distributions, first Mandriva, then Ubuntu, then
Mandriva again, then OpenSUSE, CentOS, Fedora, Arch Linux and now Manjaro,
which is built on top of Arch and has a ready to use Net Edition. Just what I
was looking for (check it out [here](http://manjaro.org/get-manjaro/)).

So, while you're in Linux and you get all excited about being able to be very
exquisit with which applications you are going to use (in matter of performance
and low consumption), you'll end up using the terminal **a lot**. That's what I
did, first using _alsamixer_ to control the sound, then _nano_ to edit files,
then _vim_, as well as music players like _mocp_, IRC clients like _irssi_,
email clients like _mutt_, then you might begin using _xterm_ instead of any
other fancy gtk terms, also you might switch from _Gnome_ to _OpenBox_, and
later to _DWM_, which could end up being your favorite one, because nothing is
going to be so fast and simple. Then maybe you're too lazy to set up a
background image each time you're setting up a machine, or like me, you get so
uncomfortable selecting an image that you prefer to have none, and finally you
end just using conky to give it a fancy style, but keeping things minimal, etc
etc...  well, the point is that you start to use the terminal a lot. Fine.

[![My current desktop.](http://i.imgur.com/D4sEE0Q.png)](http://i.imgur.com/D4sEE0Q.png)

Now, every time you open your computer to start working with a project, you
open several terminals, maybe using TMUX, in some of them you run several
applications, like databases, web servers, or your editor; you load your vim
sessions to open all your needed files and then you start working, you do this
some days and you feel fine, but eventually you begin to think that maybe you
could be doing that automatically, because it's tedious to be opening the
same stuff again and again and again and again...

For many years, I've encountered persons that asked me if I knew a way of
scripting tmux to open several terminals and load your programs, or if there
was a way of making macros with tmux, but I was unable to answer properly, I
said: well, yes, in principle you can start tmux's server and tell it to load
several applications, but it's not an automatic process, I mean, you can't just
record your actions to play them again, you have to make the script and change
it as you want new things to happen. I never explored the possibilities of that
approach, but it looks so cumbersome that everyone I know ended up just doing
things by hand and that's it.

Until now, ladies and gentlemen I present you: _xmacro_.

## [XMacro](http://xmacro.sourceforge.net)

For Arch Linux users, xmacro is available in the AUR: <https://aur.archlinux.org/packages/xmacro>

Essentially, xmacro records your pressed keys and saves them to a file. To run
it, see the line below:

    xmacrorec2 > myrecording

Once you call it, first you'll have to pick a quit-key (`<Esc>` is fine), then
whatever you do will be recorded: moving your mouse, clicking, pressing any
key, etc. Do some stuff, then press the quit-key, and you'll be able to
replicate that behavior with the following command:

    xmacroplay "$DISPLAY" < myrecording

Let's check `myrecording` file to see what we've got. As you'll see below, it
looks very much like the output of `xbindkeys -mk` (after you click some keys
there):

    MotionNotify 949 749
    KeyStrPress Alt_L
    Delay 147
    KeyStrPress 2
    KeyStrRelease 2
    KeyStrRelease Alt_L
    Delay 783
    KeyStrPress Alt_L
    Delay 110
    KeyStrPress 1
    KeyStrRelease 1
    KeyStrRelease Alt_L
    Delay 2351
    MotionNotify 918 536
    ButtonPress 1
    Delay 100
    ButtonRelease 1
    Delay 2396
    MotionNotify 628 378
    ButtonPress 1
    Delay 100
    ButtonRelease 1
    Delay 1593
    KeyStrPress Control_L
    Delay 79
    KeyStrPress c

In the previous code, first you see `MotionNotify`, which indicates the
position of the cursor, then you can see that I pressed `Alt_L`, waited 147
milliseconds, then pressed `2`, then released `2`, then released `Alt_L`
(`Alt_L+2` sends you to the second desktop in DWM). The rest of the file
consists of the same type of actions. It's fairly easy to edit (just remember
to keep it clean of empty lines, empty lines produce errors). If you want to
reproduce that again, but going to the third desktop instead, yo could change
`KeyStrPress 2` and `KeyStrRelease 2` for `KeyStrPress 3` and `KeyStrRelease 3`
respectively.

Fair enough, now you know a way of recording and replaying macros in X, and
it's also very easy to customize. Now let's make it more practical.

## An use-case

Let's define an use-case:

>   I, as an user, want to be able to open a new tab in tmux, and to cd to the
>   directory in which my current active file in vim is located.

To follow the process with me, you'll need to have changed the behavior of tmux
to work like vim, so please add the following lines to your `.tmux.conf`:

    # vim keys
    set-window-option -g mode-keys vi
    bind-key -t vi-copy 'v' begin-selection
    bind-key -t vi-copy 'y' copy-selection
    bind-key h select-pane -L
    bind-key j select-pane -D
    bind-key k select-pane -U
    bind-key l select-pane -R

I'm also using the default `<Ctrl+b>` behavior of tmux, so make sure you
**DON'T** have lines like the followings in your `~/.tmux.conf`:

    unbind C-b
    set -g prefix C-a
    bind C-a send-prefix

So, how would you answer the use-case we stated? you could, for example, expand
your current path with vim, typing `:!# %:p:h` and then pressing tab:

    :!# %:p:h
    <Tab>
    :!# /home/youruser/your/path/
    <Smile>

Then, as the use-case states, we're in tmux, so we can select that text
pressing `<Ctrl+b>[`, it will stop rendering the terminal, and it will let you
move over or select the rendered text, but starting from the point your cursor
was before pressing those keys. So, as we set it to work like vim, now we can
press `0` to go to the beginning of the line, then press `4l` to move to the
beginning of the path, then press `v` to start the selection, then press `$` to
go to the end of the line and now press `y` to copy the text to tmux's buffer.
Finally press `<Ctrl+c>` to get out of tmux's special behavior.

Now, we press `<Ctrl+b>c` to open a new tab, in which we write `cd ` and we
paste tmux's buffer with `<Ctrl+]>`. That way we complete the use-case.

[![Manually opening a new tab in tmux, and changing to the directory in which my current active file in vim is located.](http://i.imgur.com/DXtHPSo.gif)](http://i.imgur.com/DXtHPSo.gif)

As you see, it's a complex process, even if you have done it so many times you
can do it without thinking, it requires lots of key presses and it's
error-prone, because you can miss keys and end up doing something else.

So let's automate it!

## Automating the use-case

First, let's make a directory at home to store our macros, let's call it
`~/.xmacros`.

An easy (but wrong) way of doing this automation is to call `xmacrorec2 >
~/.xmacros/vim_tmux_cd_newtab.macro` (you can change the file name if you want)
from another window (or terminal), then to switch to the one where you have
tmux and vim, then to do the process above, and end the recording pressing the
quit-key. Now, each time you want to do it, you'll have to switch to another
window/terminal and run `xmacroplay` on it. This is not the preferred way,
right? what if we make it possible from vim directly? Let's try it.

Let's edit `vim_tmux_cd_newtab.macro` to remove the window switching, just
remove some of the first lines, they look like this:

    KeyStrPress Alt_L
    KeyStrPress 1
    KeyStrRelease 1
    KeyStrRelease Alt_L

(That was how I switch desktops).

You can also eliminate all the lines with `Delay`. Make sure it is exactly what
you want before going to the next steps. The one that I'm using is the
following: <https://gist.github.com/9997147>

If you try calling `xmacroplay` from vim, make sure to call it as follows:

    :exec "!xmacroplay \"$DISPLAY\" < ~/.xmacros/vim_tmux_cd_newtab.macro &"

(the key points are `"$DISPLAY"` and the last `&`).

That's a way to do it. You'll probably prefer to set it in a mapping, but as
the command is in double quotes, imagine trying to call another of your macros,
you'll need to write it manually instead of being able to press tab until you
reach your preferred.

Instead, we could make a bash script and add it to your `$PATH`, that way
you'll be able to call it from vim and complete the paths with `<Tab>`, just
like we completed `%:h`.

This bash script is very simple, here's my approach, I call it `run_xmacro`:

    (cd ~/; xmacroplay "$DISPLAY" < $1 > /dev/null 2>&1 &)

To use this script, be sure you give it execution rights with: `chmod +x`, then
you can make a mapping to call it, put this in your `.vimrc` or in the file
where you put the mappings (I use `~/.vim/plugin/mappings.vim`);

    nmap <Tab>m :!run_xmacro ~/.xmacros/

(I use `<Tab>` a lot, so `<Tab>m` is the first thing that came to mind, change
it to fit your needs.)

Ok, so we're done! Now just press `<Tab>m`, the command will appear in vim,
then you'll be able to press tab again and loop over all your xmacros! Click on
one and it will run flawlessly.

[![Automatically opening a new tab in tmux, and changing to the directory in which my current active file in vim is located.](http://i.imgur.com/hjPxq40.gif)](http://i.imgur.com/hjPxq40.gif)

Done, now it's time to get creative and build your own macros, automate your
workflow to speed up your daily life!

If you need any help please ping me @[sadasant](https://twitter.com/sadasant).
(Just request to follow, if I forget to accept, send me an email).

_// I made the gifs with [tty2gif](https://github.com/z24/tty2gif)_
